- [Announcer] If you do any research on Java Cryptography,
you're gonna run into people suggesting that you use
Bouncy Castle in order to solve all of your crypto needs.
And indeed I wouldn't be disappointed if you did that,
even after watching all this information on the JCA.
However, there's a few things that we need to talk about
about Bouncy Castle in order for you to make
an informed decision.
First of all, what is Bouncy Castle?
It's an open-source project that's run
by an Australian charity organization called
the Legion of Bouncy Castle.
Now they offer both Java and C# implementations
of a wide variety of crypto functions including
everything we've looked at so far in this course.
Now at its core from the Java prospective,
it is a full JCE provider.
It's also a full crypto library that can stand on its own.
It has a very robust API for dealing with things like TLS
and certificates, and that's actually one of the points
of which I would always recommend using Bouncy Castle,
if you are gonna be dealing with X.509 certs
or any other type of certificate in which you need
to actually manipulate, build,
and transpose those certificates.
Bouncy Castle also offers much, much more
than what we've talked about here.
So why would you even consider using it?
Well other than what I've talked about about the robustness,
there are some things that are
just easier than when using pure Java,
such as certificates and TLS.
Often Bouncy Castle will have
much more robust algorithm support than the default JCE.
There's also a much broader set of functions for dealing
with things like PGP and SSH, and the list goes on and on.
But one thing to note, and this it the biggest detriment
of Bouncy Castle, is it's big.
It is a very big jar.
And if you're only doing basic functionality like AES
or message digest or hashing, there's just really no reason
to bring it in to the class path.
But there are functions that you wanna use Bouncy Castle.
So if you're out looking on Stack Overflow and you wanna see
how to do something, and the first answer that comes
up is use Bouncy Castle, don't immediately discredit that,
but take it with a grain of salt.
There are very valid use cases for Bouncy Castle,
but it is not a silver bullet that solves all
of the crypto needs that are out there.